# Advancing Human-ML Interaction

## Project ID: **2531ad1525**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Information and Communication Technologies](../themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Psychology and Language Sciences (PALS)](../departments/division-of-psychology-and-language-sciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/pals)

Lead Supervisor: [Enrico Costanza](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/57907)

### Project Summary:

Why this research is important
Machine Learning (ML) is applied to an ever-increasing number of domains, ranging from healthcare to social services to crime prevention. However, the technical complexity of ML models, the large number of parameters, and vast amounts of data involved in training them make it challenging to design intelligible and usable systems, especially, for people who may not be experts in this technology. This project aims to address the well-recognized challenge to develop new user interfaces and interaction mechanisms around ML systems, to make them intelligible and accountable.

What you will be doing
You will advance Human-ML interaction by designing, prototyping and evaluating novel interfaces and interaction techniques. The experimental work (user experiments or field trials) will require the development of robust software prototypes of interactive ML systems, and it will measure the impact of different user interface features, interaction mechanisms, and different approaches to present information generated by the ML models. 

Who you will be working with
You will become part of the UCLIC: a Centre of Excellence in Human-Computer Interaction drawing its members from the Computer Science Department and the Division of Psychology and Language Sciences. The work will leverage the primary supervisor prior research on user interaction with ML and AI both in terms of mentoring and existing code. You will also have opportunities to interact with the team of a new research project about human-centred ML for robotics surgery (but this project is not constrained to that application domain).

Who we are looking for
You will have experience in at least one of the following areas and be keen to gain expertise in the other ones: Human-Computer Interaction and its associated research methods (such as user-centred design, inferential statistic and qualitative data analysis), ML, development of interactive software.
