# The impact of climate change and inequalities on indoor environments within retrofitted dwellings in deprived English settings

## Project ID: **2531ad1487**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [${department}](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Marcella Ucci](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/5640)

### Project Summary:

- Research importance: Retrofitting existing homes is critical for meeting the UK’s energy security and NetZero goals. The UK’s Climate Change Committee also emphasized the need to adapt homes to a changing climate. Retrofits should harness co-benefits and avoid any unintended consequences – particularly for the most disadvantaged residents. E.g. retrofit may improve thermal comfort, especially in winter. However, without suitable design and operation, indoor air quality could be worsened, with risks for overheating even greater because of future climatic changes. For disadvantaged residents, fuel poverty, overcrowding and behaviour may differently affect building performance and indoor conditions. This project aims to evaluate potential co-benefits and unintended consequences of retrofitting dwellings for NetZero in areas with high levels of deprivation in England, in the context of a changing climate. 
- Supervisors:  Dr Marcella Ucci (Primary), Professor in Healthy and Sustainable Buildings at UCL IEDE (the Bartlett Faculty); with expertise in building performance monitoring and modelling, particularly indoor air quality. Dr Phil Symonds (Secondary), Lecturer in Built Environment Analytics at IEDE, with expertise in the modelling and analysis of large-scale data using cutting edge statistical and machine learning techniques. 
-What you will be doing: the project employs building performance modelling, combined with fieldwork where needed. You will use simulation tools such as EnergyPlus and Contam to create digital models of representative retrofit projects in deprived settings, to evaluate the impact of retrofit, climate change and occupant behaviours on building-related carbon emissions and indoor conditions. 
-PhD Applicants will have: 1) a good understanding of building physics principles, particularly ventilation and thermal performance. 2) knowledge of building performance evaluation and modelling; 3) knowledge of, or a strong interest in, relevant statistical methods. A degree or postgraduate education in engineering, architecture, sustainable design or similar are preferred. Other degrees may be considered, based on prior experience.
