# Developing a novel strategy for site-selective amide formation at C-terminal cysteines to enable the synthesis of homogeneous state-of-the-art antibody conjugates

## **OFFER ACCEPTED**

## Project ID: **2531ac1467**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Vijay Chudasama](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/28175)

Partner Organisation: AstraZeneca PLC

Stipend enhancement: £2,500 per year

### Project Summary:

Over the years, a wide variety of methods have been established for the modification of various amino acids on peptides/proteins, e.g., Cysteine, Lysine. However, the absence of a reliable strategy for modification of the C-terminus has persisted. To the best of our knowledge, the only general method for C-terminal modification is that pioneered by Macmillian et al. (Nature Chem., 2017, 10, 205-211). However, this strategy is decarboxylative, uses an Ir photocatalyst, requires pH 3.5 for good yields and introduces a highly unnatural group onto the protein. Prima facie, the lack of methods for C-terminus modification seems logical as it is conceptually difficult to activate/react only one carboxylic acid in the presence of all others. In this project, the Chudasama and Baker research groups are proposing to develop an organic-chemistry-led first-in-class method for the site-selective modification of C-terminal cysteines. This will enable site-selective conjugation of native antibodies as the vast majority of clinically relevant antibodies bear a C-terminal cysteine (thus leading to the various applications of antibody conjugates, e.g., use in cancer imaging, therapy, diagnostics, immunotherapy, etc. whilst also providing a fundamental addition to the chemical biologist’s toolbox in a broader context). Our core concept is to utilise sulfur selective chemistries to deliver coupling reagents to the carboxylate on the C-terminus, which will then enable site-specific amide bond formation. Encouragingly, we have published two key preliminary results in the area (Chem. Commun., 2022, 58, 5359-5362; Chem. Sci., 2024, 15, 8557-8568), which sets the groundwork for application on various antibody scaffolds.
