# Enzyme immobilisation on 3D printed scaffolds for an enhanced an more sustainable industrial biocatalysis

## Project ID: **2531ad1489**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [Biochemical Engineering](../departments/biochemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biochemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Jack Jeffries](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/37542)

### Project Summary:

Industrial production of high value pharmaceuticals and value added industrial chemicals are reliant on fossil fuel feedstocks. Biocatalysis could supplant current methods, removing the need for harsh conditions, utilise biological waste streams all whilst maintaining or improving on key process requirements such as product yield and enantio-specificity. To increase the uptake of biocatalysts the durability and reusability enzymes, must be improved. This can be achieved by immobilising enzymes on a support, increasing the durability and allowing for the recovery of the enzyme support from the reaction mix for reuse.
We have recently adapted an open-source bioreactor platform to include a larger suite of sensing capabilities, spectrophotometric, pH, DO and Raman. In parallel we have shown that enzymes can be immobilised on 3D printed designs by simple microwave heating. The aim of the project will be to develop these two technologies, 3D printing constructs for loading with enzymes for integration into the bioreactors. We will combine these with biocatalytic cascades such as those to produce Tetrahydroisoquinoline alkaloids utilising Transaminases, methyltransferases and ene reductases.
Initial work will focus on developing the 3D printed constructs for enhanced performance and integration into the bioreactors. Alternative methods of immobilisation will be pursed. and the efficiency of loading of enzymes as well as their catalytic activity will be investigated.
In subsequent years the3D printed constructs with enzymes loaded will be used in reactions in the bioreactors and the suite of analytics used to monitor reaction progression expanded, furthermore multi enzyme cascades will be investigate using the immobilisation technology.

This is a collaborative project between Jack Jeffries (primary supervisor), and Helen Hailes  (subsidiary supervisor - Chemistry). We are seeking a talented Biochemical engineer/ biochemist who wishes to work at the interface between reactor design, enzyme engineering and organic chemistry, eager to work in an interdisciplinary environment.
