# Advancing Surface Applications through Nanoscale Engineering in Cage-Like Materials

## Project ID: **2531ad1559**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Advanced Materials](../themes/advanced-materials.md)

UCL Lead department: [${department}](../departments/mechanical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Vikramjeet Singh](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/72435)

### Project Summary:

Why this research is important: This PhD project deals with the design and development of new cage-like materials, metal-organic frameworks (MOF), silicates (eg. zeolites) and porous organic polymers (POCs) for customised surface applications. Specifically, development of coatings to prevent anti-fouling/biofouling in medical devices and other hospital-acquired microbial infections. Aim is to solve prolonged problems in surface science (mainly, protective coatings) including low adhesion to the substrates, non-selectivity and limitations in terms of rejecting contaminants and mechanochemical susceptibility through nanoengineering approach. The project also involve elements of machine learning models for screening appropriate ligands (organic and/or metal) from Cambridge Structure Database to build porous crystalline network for different substrates such as metals, polymers and glass. The project will have direct impact on millions of lives that suffers from severe medical device related microbial infections. 

Who you will be working with: You will work under the supervision of Dr. Vikramjeet Singh. Profile can be visited at https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/72435-vikaramjeet-singh. The second supervisor is Dr. Peyman Z. Moghadam from UCL Chemical Engineering (https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/91848-peyman-z-moghadam). You will enjoy direct access to the world class facility at Manufacturing Futures Lab (MFL) at UCL East campus and Advanced Characterization Materials Laboratory at UCL Mechanical and Chemical Engineering, University College London. 

What you will be doing: You will acquire training of advanced computational tools in collaboration with Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (CCDC) under Dr. Moghadam’s supervision. And, you will directly work under the guidance of Dr. Singh to gain the knowledge on synthesis and nanoengineering in advanced materials and various characterisation techniques.

Who we are looking for: You should have interest in materials and healthcare in general. An engineering background such as materials engineering and/or biomedical engineering (MSc, MEng) is desirable. Good analytical and verbal reasoning skills and experience in academic presentation are essential.
