# Optimising smart hydrogen combustion for ultra-low emission heavy-duty vehicles

## **OFFER ACCEPTED**

## Project ID: **2531ac1473**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mechanical Engineering](../departments/mechanical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Paul Hellier](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/25993)

Partner Organisation: Smart-H Ltd.

Stipend enhancement: £2,500 per year

### Project Summary:

The urgent need to address global climate change and reach net-zero requires the displacement of fossil fuels in transport with sustainable alternatives. Concurrently, there is growing recognition of the impacts of vehicle emissions on public health, especially in urban areas. Renewably produced hydrogen (H2) is of significant potential in heavy-duty transport sectors, for example off-road construction machinery and heavy goods vehicles. However, significant challenges remain in the provision of H2 generated from renewable electricity, limiting near-term utilisation.

Hydrogen can also be used in combination with other fuels to reduce carbon intensity and the production of emissions harmful to human health and the environment. Such an approach can also utilise on-vehicle hydrogen production to overcome current infrastructure limitations and be retrofitted to existing vehicles. This PhD project therefore investigates the co-combustion of hydrogen in heavy-duty diesel engines towards determining the optimal use of H2 for emissions reduction from difficult to decarbonise transport sectors. Experiments with a heavy-duty research facility will provide novel understanding of hydrogen use in combination with other renewable fuels, including advanced biofuels from waste, for example impacts on the formation of nitrogen oxides and toxicity of particulate emissions.

The successful candidate will be based at UCL Mechanical Engineering and collaborate closely with industry partners Smart-H, an innovative UK based company focused on the development of advanced retrofit solutions for emissions reduction from heavy-duty vehicles. The PhD student will gain experience and skills in hydrogen combustion, operating research engines, interpreting heat release data and speciating exhaust emissions. The student will benefit from close engagement and placement opportunities with Smart-H and be encouraged to publish work in leading international journals and conferences. Applicants should have a background in a relevant engineering or chemistry discipline and a strong interest in devising sustainable engineering solutions towards achieving net-zero and reducing pollutant emissions.
