# Equitable movement and navigation modelling

## Project ID: **2531ac1460**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Artificial Intelligence and Robotics](../themes/artificial-intelligence-and-robotics.md)

UCL Lead department: [${department}](../departments/bartlett-school-of-architecture.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/architecture)

Lead Supervisor: [Sean Hanna](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/9998)

Partner Organisation: ${partnerLink}

Stipend enhancement: ${stipendEnhancement}

### Project Summary:

Current models of human movement are generally based on “average” members of the population in "typical” spaces. Although it is critical to understand and account for these, current models generally overlook individuals with unique movement behaviour, as well as people navigating atypical environments. It is also the case that similar movement patterns can result from different navigation strategies or ways of processing space and existing models may therefore be based on assumptions that do not hold true for everyone. 
 
This PhD project will advance and diversify our understanding of how people navigate space, by developing novel and appropriate AI models and simulations of human movement behaviour. In collaboration Autodesk Ltd., a leading AEC technology developer, the student will focus on differences between individuals and between groups, as well as different types of environments, to expand existing models of movement and spatial analysis and aim to improve both accuracy and diversity.  
 
The project builds on a unique, cutting-edge data set. Collected in a large human movement study conducted in 2024 at UCL’s Person-Environment-Activity Research Laboratory (PEARL), over 100 people were tracked in a controlled environment and data collected of their movement, brain activity, physiological responses, eye movements, as well as subjective spatial experience; additional studies are planned in the coming years. The PhD student will have unique opportunity to use these to develop the tools and technology to improve the design of spaces that support diverse populations in future smart cities and built environments.
