# An AI-informed computational platform for designing in vitro organ growth

## Project ID: **2531ad1543**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [${department}](../departments/laboratory-for-molecular-cell-biology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/lmcb)

Lead Supervisor: [Yanlan Mao](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/40652)

### Project Summary:

Why important:
Our organs must grow to the correct size, shape, and 3D morphology to function correctly. When organ growth is mis-regulated, severe diseases can result. However, the mechanisms behind organ growth control are still not well understand. Studies have shown that  their external surrounding extracellular matrix (e.g. ECM mechanics) can result in symmetry breaking events to drive organogenesis.

Who you will work with: Yanlan Mao's Lab and Simon Walker-Samuel's Lab at UCL.
The Mao lab (LMCB and IPLS) have previously developed a Finite Element Model (FEM) to study tissue morphogenesis (1). The model has recently been further generalised to include various tissue geometries, and ECM mechanical properties. This makes the model a useful tool to study the independent physical factors for tissue engineering and organ growth control. Although this is faster and cheaper than experiments, it is still computationally intensive and time-consuming. Deep Learning techniques have proven effective at solving complex mathematical functions. We therefore propose to extend our existing computational system with a deep learning pipeline to rapidly predict a set of matrix properties for desired organoid growth (with Walker-Samuel lab).

What you will do:
You will work with scientists in the Mao and Walker-Samuel Labs to develop the FEM model, learn the key concepts in biomechanics and deep learning, as well as using core practices for good software development, all of which are vital for any career involving computational coding. Knowledge of C++ or Python is an advantage.

Who we are looking for:
If you have a curious mind, would like to work in a vibrant interdisciplinary lab at the interface of biology, physics and computer science and engineering, then contact me: y.mao@ucl.ac.uk 

Reference:
1.	Tozluoǧlu, M. et al. Planar Differential Growth Rates Initiate Precise Fold Positions in Complex Epithelia. Developmental Cell (2019).
