# Systems, Decision-making and Transdisciplinary in Climate and Health Policy Implementation

## Project ID: **2531ad1486**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

UCL Lead department: [${department}](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Irene Pluchinotta](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/73043)

### Project Summary:

Achieving Net-Zero in the Built Environment and addressing the intertwined challenges of climate, health and health inequalities are critical for tackling grand societal challenges. To identify roots of challenges and impactful policies, it requires systems-oriented solutions, transformative strategies, and the integration of diverse knowledge across health and climate systems,  as well as innovation in methods for bridging research and practice.

The UK  has been a leader in setting climate targets, but  aspects of the UK’s Net Zero Strategy remain undefined and there are lags and barriers to implementation, which ultimately result to modest progress towards climate action.  There is growing research interest in how to strengthen and improve policy-making processes - from agenda setting to implementation. Accelerating Net-Zero requires an understanding of the system, engagement and inclusion of diverse knowledge, and capacity to support the implementation of strategies that prioritize health and equity.

Building on existing research and collaborations, this project will take a transdisciplinary research approach to work closely with decision and policy-makers to understand and model systemic challenges, and to co-design and explore strategies for integrating climate, health and health inequalities objectives into policy, using a system-wide approach.

System Dynamics modelling identifies links between sectoral challenges and interventions, while Transdisciplinarity integrates knowledge across disciplines and stakeholders, fostering comprehensive understanding and innovative solutions to achieve Net-Zero. This synergy enhances our ability to strengthen and support the implementation stage of the policy process.

The student will be part of a research team at the Institute of Environmental Engineering and Design. The student will enhance their expertise in System Dynamics Modelling, Participatory and Transdisciplinary Research, and Evaluation applied to Net-Zero policy-making. They will innovate methodologically by integrating System Dynamics modelling and Operational Research methods to advance tools and models for evaluating climate policies and frameworks, to accelerate equitable implementation.
