# Fluorinated electrolyte design for improved Li battery safety and cycle lifetime

## Project ID: **2531ad1502**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemical Engineering](../departments/chemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Alexander Kibler](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/99324)

### Project Summary:

The electrification of transport is a key milestone towards the transition to net-zero and the utilisation of green electricity. Li-ion batteries currently power electric cars and light goods vehicles (LGV) but lack the energy density required for electric haulage and aviation. Next-generation batteries using energy-dense lithium metal anodes could address this challenge, but lithium metal’s reactivity introduces issues of flammability and poor cycling performance. This project uses electrolyte engineering to improve the safety and stability of Li-metal batteries, through the development and formulation of new fluorine-rich electrolyte components which will reduce flammability, supress thermal runaway and stabilize the lithium metal surface.

Supervised by Dr. Alexander Kibler, whose research focuses on designing functional chemical components in energy storage devices, and co-supervised by Dr. James Robinson, an expert in battery diagnostics and safety, this project will be based at the Advanced Propulsion Lab (APL) at UCL East. The APL is a cross-disciplinary research consortium, hosting equipment and expertise in electrochemical engineering, chemistry, materials science, and mechanical engineering. The PhD candidate will be trained in synthesis and purification techniques, liquid and solid-state characterisation, electrochemical analyses and cell construction and testing. This skillset is highly desirable for future careers in both academia and industry. The research is expected to yield high impact outputs, providing potential opportunities for research article authorship, presentations at international conferences and co-inventorship of intellectual property.

We are seeking an enthusiastic and dedicated scientist, with demonstrable ability to work independently and within a collaborative team. Applicants must hold a minimum of a UK Master’s degree in a relevant discipline with Merit, or a minimum of an upper second-class MEng, MChem or MSci from a UK university, or an overseas qualification of an equivalent standard. Experience with research methods, electrochemistry and organic and material synthesis are desirable.
