# Modelling system flexibility and renewable generation surplus: A key to enable investment and achieve a Net Zero electricity system.

## Project ID: **2531ad1482**
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [${department}](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Michael Grubb](https://profiles.ucl.ac.uk/45238)

### Project Summary:

As the UK accelerates its transition to a net zero energy system, one of the defining challenges is managing the growing periods of surplus electricity generation that occur with increased deployment of variable generation such as wind. These surplus periods affect negatively the volume and price of the produced electricity, decreasing the business case and hinder further investments. 
This PhD project will be conducted within the UCL Institute for Sustainable Resources (ISR), where you'll be part of the newly launched Centre for Net Zero Market Design, under the supervision of Professor Michael Grubb and Dr. Serguey Maximov.
In this PhD, you will:
*Evaluate the need for and impact of absorptive technologies, such as interconnectors, energy storage, demand-side response with EVs and heat pumps, and hydrogen production for industrial uses, including ‘sector-coupling’ analysis.
*Develop or adapt models to quantify and characterize surplus energy levels under various UK energy decarbonisation pathway scenarios, considering renewable capacity, network build-out, and market arrangements.
*Analyse how different system and market configurations affect economic curtailment, pricing, and investment risks for new renewable projects.
*Using these tools, examine a range of policy mechanisms both to directly reduce investor risk perception, and to enhance the economic use of surplus generation and thereby also indirectly reduce investor risk.
We seek a candidate with a strong background in energy systems or mathematical modelling, with an interest in renewable energy integration and electricity market design. If you're motivated to advance knowledge in sustainable energy and help shape the future of energy policy, we encourage you to apply.
