# UCL EPSRC DTP - 2025/26 project catalogue <br /><br />This catalogue lists all the projects available for applicants to the UCL EPSRC DTP for 2025/26. [See the main website for details on how to apply.]( https://www.ucl.ac.uk/epsrc-doctoral-training/prospective-students/apply-ucl-epsrc-dtp-studentship)<br/><br/><br/>## How to use the catalogue<br />Each project has its own summary page. All projects have a lead UCL department shown in their summary. Some projects also have a collaborating department if they are interdisciplinary projects. Each project also has a lead supervisor shown in their summary. All students recruited to UCL will also be supported by additional members of a supervisory team - for some projects this may be detailed in the summary, for other it will be finalised after a student begins. Project summaries also contain links to the lead department's UCL webpage, so you can read more about the department, and the lead supervisor's UCL profile page (for the majority of supervisors), so you can read more about the lead supervisor.<br /><br />You can [browse the catalogue by research theme](#browse-projects-by-research-theme) - this will give you a list of all projects available within the research theme. Each research theme page has a link to the theme's summary page on the EPSRC website so that you can read more about the theme and the kind of research it covers. Clicking on a research theme name within a project summary will take you to a list of all projects with that research theme.<br /><br />Or you can [browse the catalogue by lead department](#browse-projects-by-lead-department) - this will give you a list of all projects available within the department. Note that for interdisciplinary projects, they will only be listed within their lead department. Clicking on a department name within a project summary will take you to a list of all projects with that lead department.<br /><br />You can also browse a list of all the [collaborative projects](collaborative/collaborative-projects.md). Collaborative projects are jointly funded by an external partner organisation, and involve time spent on placement at the partner’s premises.<br /><br />## Browse all projects by research theme<br /><br />[Advanced Materials](themes/advanced-materials.md)<br />[Artificial Intelligence and Robotics](themes/artificial-intelligence-and-robotics.md)<br />[Circular Economy](themes/circular-economy.md)<br />[Digital Security and Resilience](themes/digital-security-and-resilience.md)<br />[Energy and Decarbonisation](themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)<br />[Engineering](themes/engineering.md)<br />[Healthcare Technologies](themes/healthcare-technologies.md)<br />[Information and Communication Technologies](themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)<br />[Manufacturing The Future](themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)<br />[Mathematical Sciences](themes/mathematical-sciences.md)<br />[Physical Sciences](themes/physical-sciences.md)<br />[Quantum Technologies](themes/quantum-technologies.md)<br /><br />## Browse all projects by lead department<br /><br />### Faculty of the Built Environment
[Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources (BSEER)](departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)<br />[Bartlett School of Architecture](departments/bartlett-school-of-architecture.md)<br />[Bartlett School of Sustainable Construction](departments/bartlett-school-of-sustainable-construction.md)<br />[Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis (CASA)](departments/centre-for-advanced-spatial-analysis.md)<br />### Faculty of Engineering Sciences
[Biochemical Engineering](departments/biochemical-engineering.md)<br />[Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering (CEGE)](departments/civil-environmental-and-geomatic-engineering.md)<br />[Chemical Engineering](departments/chemical-engineering.md)<br />[Computer Science](departments/computer-science.md)<br />[Electronic and Electrical Engineering (EEE)](departments/electronic-and-electrical-engineering.md)<br />[Mechanical Engineering](departments/mechanical-engineering.md)<br />[Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering](departments/medical-physics-and-biomedical-engineering.md)<br />[Science, Technology, Engineering and Public Policy (STEAPP)](departments/science-technology-engineering-and-public-policy.md)<br />[Security and Crime Science](departments/security-and-crime-science.md)<br />### Faculty of Mathematical and Physical Sciences
[Chemistry](departments/chemistry.md)<br />[Earth Sciences](departments/earth-sciences.md)<br />[London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)<br />[Mathematics](departments/mathematics.md)<br />[Physics and Astronomy](departments/physics-and-astronomy.md)<br />[Risk and Disaster Reduction](departments/risk-and-disaster-reduction.md)<br />[Statistical Science](departments/statistical-science.md)<br />### Faculty of Life Sciences
[Division of Biosciences](departments/division-of-biosciences.md)<br />[Laboratory for Molecular Cell Biology (LMCB)](departments/laboratory-for-molecular-cell-biology.md)<br />[School of Pharmacy](departments/school-of-pharmacy.md)<br />### Faculty of Medical Sciences
[Division of Medicine](departments/division-of-medicine.md)<br />[Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences](departments/division-of-surgery-and-interventional-sciences.md)<br />[Eastman Dental Institute](departments/eastman-dental-institute.md)<br />### Faculty of Brain Sciences
[Division of Psychology and Language Sciences (PALS)](departments/division-of-psychology-and-language-sciences.md)<br />[Ear Institute](departments/ear-institute.md)<br />### Faculty of Population Health Sciences
[Institute of Cardiovascular Science](departments/institute-of-cardiovascular-science.md)
